---
title: Insert title here
key: e51ae04f13cc2c4004e7fd2c960417b3

---
## Time Series Analysis with Spreadsheets

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "502009f530"
```

`@lower_third`

name: Alex Powers
title: MCSA: BI Reporting, MTA: Python, MOSE, MOS, Acronym Collector


`@script`
Hello fellow DataCamp-ers! My name is Alex Powers and this is Time Series Analysis with Spreadsheets. Now, whether you are an aspiring data scientist or a seasoned professional - there is one guarantee in your journey... SPREADSHEETS! There is simply no getting away from this popular format, so we should probably spend our time (see what I did there) learning how to leverage these tools to our advantage.

For this course when we talk about time series analysis we are talking about the evaluation of results over a frequency based period, for example: daily, weekly, monthly, yearly, hourly, and so on. This evaluation allows us to answer important questions such as - are we growing? are we declining? is there a trend? or perhaps seasonality in our results? These types of questions can present fantastic insights for any medium or business.

First though, let's get some of the basic spreadsheet foundations out of the way so we have a clear understanding of how values are stored within the spreadsheet application.


---
## Spreadsheet Data Types

```yaml
type: "TwoColumns"
key: "0626fd42e8"
```

`@part1`
1. Text, `"Spreadsheets are fun!"`

1. Number, `100.56`

1. Boolean, `TRUE`

1. Error Codes, `#NAME?`


`@part2`



`@script`
The data types most commonly found in spreadsheets are text, number, boolean and error code values.

For text, values are stored in double quotes as opposed to the apostrophes found in other popular programming languages.

Numbers, are stored as a decimal values.
Boolean, which are our TRUE or FALSE values.
and Error codes which raise a system message when an error occurs - in this example #NAME? references an unknown function.

Ironically, I didn't mention dates or time in what is a time series course. That is because Dates and Times are actually stored as numbers - custom formatting within the spreadsheet application transform these values into a more readable format for end users.


---
## Date and Time Values

```yaml
type: "TwoColumns"
key: "3bc9ab9f92"
```

`@part1`
Date: `(YYYY, MM, DD)`

Value: `Whole Number`

1. 1/1/2019

1. 2019-01-01


`@part2`
Time: `(HH:MM:SS:MS)`

Value: `Decimal Number`

1. 12:31:09 PM

1. 22:15:04


`@script`
Let's expand on this new epiphany for a moment, that there is no spoon. 

Dates and Times both share the number data type, though as shown - our date takes the position of the whole number values and time that of the decimal position.

Why a number though? Let's start with the dates only. In spreadsheets dates generally start at a 0 or 1 based index and count the total number of days from this first system date. In google sheets our 0 index returns the system date of December 30th, 1899 - if we were to find the difference between this date and January 1st, 2019, that would be a total of 43,466 days. If you convert the custom formatting into a number the value of January 1st, 2019 will be.... (drum roll please)... that's right 43466.00. Pretty cool huh?

Now time.. with time values in spreadsheets the precision can be formatted down to the millisecond. Now this is good - but a word of caution spreadsheets can only handle up to 15 digits of floating point precision. If you were to have a much more robust set of data with results beyond this 15th point you may come across inconsistent results as both series could display the same value for example 12:15:06:32 AM, but when doing logical comparisons results will return as False, potentially throwing off your model.


---
## Let's practice!

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "a2fa16a88d"
```

`@script`
With practice makes perfect, let's spend some time testing our values in this next lesson.

